# P2P-File-Download-System

Peer-to-peer file management and distribution tool with upload, indexation, sharing, download, and deletion functionality with desktop GUI.

When we download blocks, we first create a class perclient, which is the object used to finish receiving the downloaded file, and then start the perclient process. During this time, if there is a new download request, you can continue to use the download method. In the process of downloading files, first compare the number of peerservice and blocks, if the number of peerservice is more than the number of blocks, select the information about the unknown peer server located in the first peer server in indexservice, connect the link of peer server with the port information of peer server, and keep requesting the client If the information is accepted successfully, it will enter the peerservice thread. In the peer service thread, the information of the block request is read, and the information saved in this block request is the file information of the block in the peer server at this time. Then the parameters needed to transfer the file are created, and the binary block file information is encrypted into a base64 string-type information variable. The object created by the blockReply uses the write method to transfer the relevant information to the peer client. When the file transfer is complete, a goodbye message is sent to the peer client indicating that the requested block has been transferred to this server. In the process of accepting the file in the client, a connection is established to the client via IP and port, the blockRequest information is transmitted and accepted, the string information in the blockRequest is decoded to byte array type, and the information is written to the file using the writeBlock method. Then it accepts the goodbye message from the server and prints the goodbye message through the tgui object. When there are more blocks than peer service, the number of cycles needed per peer and the number of blocks each peer needs to send are calculated, and then the same steps of downloading and transferring information about the file are performed. When there are more blocks than peer service, calculate the number of cycles needed for each peer and the number of blocks each peer needs to send, and then perform the same steps of downloading and transferring information about the file. If the number of blocks has a remainder, at this time the blocks must be less than peer service, and execute the if condition statement about the operation that the number of blocks is less than peer service.

In peer-to-peer networks, there are several advantages to using random download blocks. The first advantage is that we do not need to follow the order of downloading in chunks because the blocks can be rearranged by using randomAceessFile. The second advantage is that we can improve the efficiency of file transfer by downloading in parallel. If we use the sequential downloading method, when we transfer some files with large content, it will block the subsequent download tasks.
